DOCS-5467-Access-Management-Connected-Apps (#48)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/connected-apps-overview.adoc

= Connected Apps
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Connected Apps provide a framework that enables an external application to integrate with MuleSoft using APIs via standard protocols, such as SAML, OAuth, and OpenID Connect. Connected apps help user delegate their access without sharing sensitive credentials or giving full control of their account to third parties. Actions taken by connected apps are auditable, and you can also revoke access at any time.

Reviewer: Connected Apps are an OAuth 2.0 / OIDC implementation. SAML isn't supported by Connected Apps

> Connected Apps provide a framework that enables an external application to integrate with MuleSoft using APIs via standard protocols, such as SAML, OAuth, and OpenID Connect. Connected apps help user delegate their access without sharing sensitive credentials or giving full control of their account to third parties. Actions taken by connected apps are auditable, and you can also revoke access at any time.

Reviewer: nit: Connected apps help user -> Connected apps help users. Also the paragraph switches from the third person to the second person

> == Authentication

Reviewer: I'm a little bit confused by this section, as the information here is terse and contained in the other sections mostly

= Connected Apps
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can connect applications to Anypoint Platform without granting them unrestricted access to data or having to share sensitive credentials.

Reviewer 2: I think our style guide says to use app instead of application.

Author: Change made throughout.

> You can connect applications to Anypoint Platform without granting them unrestricted access to data or having to share sensitive credentials.

Author: ```suggestion
You can connect apps to Anypoint Platform without granting them unrestricted access to data or having to share sensitive credentials.
```

> When you grant an application access, you have direct control over its data access, usage, and credentials.

Author: ```suggestion
When you grant an app access, you have direct control over its data access, usage, and credentials.
```

You can audit the use of data by connected apps, and you can also revoke access at any time.

== Authentication

> Using OAuth 2.0 and OpenID, you can authorize applications to access resources using tokens or Single Sign-On.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID to authorize apps to access resources using tokens or Single Sign-On (SSO).
```

Additionally, you can share account data with third-party applications.

> For more information on which users can grant access to applications using Anypoint Platform, see Connected Apps Permissions by User.

Reviewer 2: Are you adding a link to that topic in See Also?

Author: I can.

== First-party and Third-party Applications

> Depending on the ownership of the application you want to connect, applications may have different authentication requirements and procedures.

Reviewer 3: > may have different authentication requirements and procedures

Authentication requirements are always the same (The user must be logged in).
Procedures - We originally wanted to support auto-approval for first-party apps but that was culled as a feature a few months back. There aren't any other procedural differences I'm aware of

> Depending on the ownership of the application you want to connect, applications may have different authentication requirements and procedures.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> To determine whether the application you want to connect is a first-party or third party application, consider the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To determine whether the app you want to connect is a first- or third-party application, consider the below:
```

> * First-party: an application that is created and controlled by the same entity as the domain owner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* First-party
   An application that is created and controlled by the same entity as the domain owner.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* First-party:: 
an app that is controlled by organization to which you belong.
```

> * First-party: an application that is created and controlled by the same entity as the domain owner.

Reviewer 3: `same entity as the domain owner` reads funny to me
- First-party applications are controlled by the organization you belong to
- Third-party applications are controlled by another organization 

Applications can also be public or private
- Public applications can be accessed by anyone
- Private applications can only be accessed by users in the same organization

So all third-party applications are necessarily public applications
and all private applications are necessarily first-party applications
but depending on the user, a public application might be first party or third party

> // will add links to the persona pages for each of those lines.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> * Third-party application: an application that is controlled by a different entity than the domain owner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Third-party app
   An application that is controlled by a different entity than the domain owner.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* Third-party application:: 
An app that is controlled by another organization.

Applications can also be public or private.

* Public applications can be accessed by anyone.
* Private applications can only be accessed by users in the same organization.
```

= Connected Apps
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can connect apps to Anypoint Platform without granting them unrestricted access to data or having to share sensitive credentials.

Reviewer: OAuth is less about "connecting" apps, more about securely delegating user access to a client application with a restricted set of permissions called scopes. Can we make sure that's conveyed in this paragraph?

> When you grant an app access, you have direct control over its data access, usage, and credentials.

Reviewer: You do not have control over credentials

> You can audit the use of data by connected apps, and you can also revoke access at any time.

Reviewer: You can audit actions taken by a connected app on your users' behalf

== Authentication

> Use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID to authorize apps to access resources using tokens or Single Sign-On (SSO).

Reviewer: OpenID -> OpenID Connect

> Use OAuth 2.0 and OpenID to authorize apps to access resources using tokens or Single Sign-On (SSO).

Reviewer: I don't understand the "tokens or SSO" part of this sentence. What are you trying to say?

> Additionally, you can share account data with third-party applications.

Reviewer: Why is sharing data _additionally_ to accessing resources? your data is one of the resources that can be accessed

For more information on which users can grant access to applications using Anypoint Platform, see Connected Apps Permissions by User.

> == First-party and Third-party Applications

Reviewer: nit: apps

Author: ```suggestion
== First-party and Third-party Apps
```

> To determine whether the app you want to connect is a first- or third-party application, consider the below:

Reviewer: This reads weird. There's multiple personas involved here -- There's an org admin who creates first-party clients, and whitelists third-party clients, and there's a user who authorizes a client application (i.e. connects the application). Users do not need to know or care if the app is first- or third-party.

* First-party: 

>   An app that is controlled by organization to which you belong.

Reviewer 4: nit:  An app that is controlled by an organization you belong to

Author: ```suggestion
  An app that is controlled by your organization.
```

* Third-party application: 

  An app that is controlled by another organization.

> Applications can also be public or private.

Reviewer: Related to the above comment, categorizing first/third party next to public/private is weird because public/private is absolute, but parties are relative; what's a first-party app to me is a third-party app to you. That is, parties aren't a property of the app alone, while visibility is.

* Public app: 

>   An app that can be accessed by anyone.

Reviewer: Accessing an app is not a defined action. You either manage it, or you authorize it
